Learning Objectives

1. Explain Python’s background and important features
Python is an interpreted computer programming language in which you can enter code instructions 
one at a time or as part of a larger program, which comprises many instructions.
Syntax is a set of rules that dictate how to specify instructions in a programming language.
Packages are libraries of code modules that other programming code can access and use.

2. Describe free, open-source software (FOSS)
FOSS is an inclusive term that covers both free software and open-source software.

The definition of free software is that the users have the freedom to run, copy, 
distribute, study, change, and improve the software (Free Software Foundation, 2019). 
Open-source software requires that the license to use the software shall not restrict 
any party from selling or giving away the software as a component of a larger software 
distribution.

3. Summarize Python’s user community and available resources
Python has a robust user community and extensive resources available for learners and developers. The official Python website (https://www.python.org) provides downloads, documentation, and other resources. The latest Python versions are platform-independent, running on Windows, Linux/Unix, Mac OS X, and more. Documentation for both current and older versions is available at https://docs.python.org/dev/. The Python Package Index (PyPI), 
located at https://pypi.org, hosts over 212,000 Python projects, offering packages for various applications.

As of late 2019, the Python version status was:  
- Python 3.9: In development  
- Python 3.8: Stable  
- Python 3.7: Stable  
- Python 3.6: Security fixes  
- Python 2.7: Stable  

Python is free and open-source software (FOSS), widely used in fields like social sciences 
and business for data analytics and application development.

4. Install Python’s platform-independent interpreter
Completed.

5. Execute Python code in an Interactive Development Environment (IDE)
Completed

6. Describe the two data sets used throughout the book
    Taxi Trips Data set: Comprised of 26 fields. over 100 million records. With field subsets
for meaning and documentation. 


    General Social Survey (GSS) data set: has over 5000 cariables collected over a period of more than 
40 years. subsets fields and meanings are described in the codebook. 
(Complete Data set)	 http://www.gss.norc.org/Get-The-Data
(Codebook)		http://gss.norc.org/get-documentation

GLOSSARY

Case sensitive
Interpreting uppercase letters (capitals) as different from lowercase letters.

Free open-source software (FOSS)
Inclusive term that covers both free software and open-source software.

Free software
Users have the freedom to run, copy, distribute, study, change, and improve the software.

Interactive Development Environment (IDE)
Contains facilities for writing and editing code as well as testing and debugging code.

Module
A text file that contains Python code.

Open-source software
Requires that the license to use the software shall not restrict any party from selling 
or giving away the software as a component of a larger software distribution.

Package
Library of code modules used/accessed by programming code.

Package manager
A program to install libraries of code.

pip
A package manager that comes already installed in Python.

Platform
The combination of a device and an operating system.

Platform independent
Software that can run on most, if not all, of the latest operating systems/computing platforms.

Python
An interpreted computer programming language.

Python distribution
Modified package that includes additional functionality. Also referred to as an alternative bundle.

Syntax
A set of rules that dictates how to specify instructions of code in a programming language.
